hiiiii anto

Identity Card

      Despite—as my friends joke—the Kurds being famous  for their severity, I was gentler than a summer breeze  as I embraced my brothers in the four corners of the  world.
      And I was the Armenian who did not believe the tears  beneath the eyelids of history’s snow that covers both the murdered and the murderers.

      Is it so much, after all that has happened, to drop my  poetry in the mud?

      In every case I was a Syrian from Bethlehem raising the  words of my Armenian brother, and a Turk from  Konya entering the gate of Damascus.
      And a little while ago I arrived in Bayadir Wadi al-Sir  and was welcomed by the breeze, the breeze that  alone knew the meaning of a man coming from the  Caucasus Mountains, his only companions his dig nity and the bones of his ancestors.
      And when my heart first tread on Algerian soil, I did  not doubt for a moment that I was an Amazigh.

      Everywhere I went they thought I was an Iraqi, and  they were not wrong in this.
      And often I considered myself an Egyptian living and  dying time and again by the Nile with my African forebears.
      But above anything I was an Aramaean. It is no wonder  that my uncles were Byzantines, and that I was a  Hijazi child coddled by Umar and Sophronius when  Jerusalem was opened.

      There is no place that resisted its invaders except that I  was of one its people; there is no free man to whom  I am not bound in kinship; and there is no single tree  or cloud to which I am not indebted. And my scorn  for Zionists will not prevent me from saying that I  was a Jew expelled from Andalusia, and that I still  weave meaning from the light of that setting sun.

      In my house there is a window that opens onto Greece,  an icon that points to Russia, a sweet scent forever  drifting from Hijaz, and a mirror: No sooner do I stand before it than I see  myself immersed in springtime in the gardens of  Shiraz, and Isfahan, and Bukhara.

      And by anything less than this, one is not an Arab.

 

My Defeated Banner 

If I could come back,
I wouldn’t come under any other banner.
I’d still embrace you
with two severed hands.
I don’t want wings in paradise,
I just want your graves by the river.
I want eternity at the breakfast table
with the bread and oil.
I want you—
earth,
my defeated banner.

 

‘Identity Card’ is from the collection Nothing More to Lose.

‘My Defeated Banner’ is from Exhausted on the Cross. First published in English by New York Review Books. Translation Copyright © 2021 by Kareem James Abu-Zeid

 